We just covered that private keys generate the public keys
and wallet addresses that allow us to interact with the blockchain.
For a private key to be secure,
we need to use a cryptographically secure random number generator
that ensures a private key we create cannot be easily traced.
And in this section, I'll show you how to use a Bitcoin address generating website,
that uses your operating systems underlying
random number generator to produce a 256-bit Random Number.
One popular website is bitaddress.org.
This isn't open source JavaScript client-side Bitcoin wallet generator,
it's an online service that helps you generate
a random Bitcoin address and associated private key.
To be secure when generating a private key,
I suggest that you do this offline.
This way, all the activity you do is local to your computer and cannot be traced online.
So to do this, in the browser,
first choose "Save page as",
and save the file to your computer.
Next, disconnect from the Internet.
Now, open the bitaddress.org.html file that you saved.
This is when bitaddress will generate a random set of keys.
To do this, it all requests your help to really spice things up,
and add a little entropy.
You'll move your mouse around the screen and bitaddress will
sample the mouse coordinates to contribute to the number generation.
Alternatively, you could type some random characters into this textbox here,
and we'll use those values instead.
Once your wallet has achieved full randomness,
it will spit out a Bitcoin address and
a private key as well as their related QR codes that you can share with others.
Now if none of the methods I've shown you strike your fancy,
remember that software wallets such as electron will generate private keys for you.
Let's jump back into electron,
and see where we can find private keys that it generated for us.
From the addresses tab,
we can see a list of Wallet addresses.
To see the associated private key,
right-click on the address and navigate to reveal your private key.
Now remember, be very careful and do not share this information.
The wallet I created here is only for learning purposes.
What if you'd like to view multiple private keys at the same time?
Another method to view addresses,
from the view here,
is from wallet, navigate to private keys, and they go to export.
Here, you have the option to export a list of
all your wallet addresses and their associated private keys,
in either CSV or JSON format.
You may be wondering, well,
if the private key is supposed to be so private,
why are there options to reveal it?
So it's possible that you may need to restore your wallet for a number of reasons.
This is a time that you might need to access your private keys,
but be very cautious when handling this information.
Now that it wraps it up for the private key section.
To recap, we learned that wallets store private keys.
These private keys in turn generate public keys and
wallet addresses that allow us to interact with the blockchain.
Private keys are nothing more than
a random number that's between one and two to the power of 256,
a number that's so big,
it's near impossible for the same two private keys to exist.
Lastly, we saw three different ways to generate a private key.
There's the old flipping of coin method,
we could use a random number generator,
that's provided by industry bedded library,
or we could use a Bitcoin address generating website.
Give the following quiz a try and generate a private key on your own.